Famous Monuments of India

Taj Mahal: Love at first sight. Such a sensation does exist as one approaches the purely, white marble 'Taj Mahal' and is overtaken by its immense size and beauty. The Taj Mahal can be referred to as a symbol of eternal love since Shah Jahan built it for his empress upon her death in 1631A.D. Read More...

Qutub Minar: 'Qutub Minar' is located in Delhi, India. It is the highest stone tower in India. It is a little over 72 meters high and built in Red Sandstone. It contains 379 stairs to reach the top and the diameter of base is 14.3 meters where as the last store is of 2.7 meters. Read More...

Red Fort: 'Red Fort' was built by the Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan. It is built of Stonewalls over 30 meters high in places. It was built on the right bank of river Yamuna. The foundation stone of the Fort was laid in 1639 and it was completed after about nine years. Read More...

Jama Masjid: Jama Masjid' is the largest mosque in India. It is located in Old Delhi. It is located just opposite to the famous Lal Quila or the Red Fort. Shah Jahan built it in 17th century in Delhi. It is also known as Masjid-e-Jahan Numa. The mosque was the result of the efforts of over 5,000 workers, over a period of seven year. Read More...

India Gate: The 'India Gate' is the national monument of India. It is in New Delhi, India. Gate was designed by Sir Edwin Lutyens. It was built in 1931. It is built of Red Sandstone and Granite. Originally known as the All India War Memorial, it is a prominent landmark in Delhi Read More...

Hawa Mahal: 'Hawa Mahal' means "Palace of Winds". Hawa Mahal is a palace in Jaipur, Rajasthan, India. It was built in 1799 by Maharaja Sawai Pratap Singh. Hawa Mahal was designed by Lal Chand Ustad. Hawa Mahal is built of Red and Pink Sandstone. The palace is a five-story pyramidal shaped monument Read More...

Golden Temple: The 'Golden Temple' in Amritsar is the holiest shrine of the Sikh region. This Temple has been destroyed many times and had been rebuilt again. It was built during the reign of Akbar, who had great respect for all religions. The domes of the Temple are covered in gold. Golden Temple of Amristar is also known as Harmandar Sahib Read More...

Char Minar: Char Minar' is located in Hyderabad in Andhra Pradesh, India. The Char Minar is a splendid piece of architecture standing in the heart of the city of Hyderabad. It was built by Quli Qutub Shah in 1591. The Char Minar is an inseparable part of the history of Hyderabad. Hyderabad is famous for its charming minarets Charminar. Read More...

Sun Temple: 'Konark Sun Temple' is a 13th century Sun Temple at Konark, in Orissa. It is also known as the 'Black Pagoda'. The name Konark is derived from the Sanskrit word Kona (meaning corner) and word Arka (means sun) in reference to the temple which was dedicated to the Sun god Surya. Read More...

Sanchi Stupa: The 'Sanchi Stupa' is located about 46 km away from Bhopal in a small place called Sanchi. Sanchi is a small village in Raisen District of the state of Madhya Pradesh, India. It is a religious place with historical and archaeological significance. It is the location of several Buddhist monuments

Famous Hindu Festivals

Diwali: 'Diwali' is one of the greatest festivals of Hindus. Diwali is also called as Deepawali. 'Deepawali' in Hindi means a row of diyas. Diwali is the festival of lights. It falls in the month of 'Ashwin' according to Hindu calendar. In Diwali almost every house and street is decorated with lamps, and lights. Read More...

Dussehra: 'Dussehra' is one of the most important festivals of the Hindus. It is also called 'Vijayadashami'. On this day Lord Rama killed Ravana. It falls on the tenth day of Ashwin month according to Hindu Calendar. It is celebrated across all over India. Dussehra celebration spreads the message of the victory of good over sin. The day is celebrated on a large scale in India as well as in Nepal and Bangladesh. Read More...

Holi: 'Holi' is one of the greatest festival of Hindus. It is a festival of colours. This festival falls on a full moon day in Phalgun Month of Hindu Calender. The story behind the Holi festival is that there was a king named Hiranya kashyap, he had a son, Prahlad, a holy spirit and highly devoted to God but Prahlad's devotion enraged Hiranya kashyap and he planned to kill his own son. Read More...

Basant Panchami: 'Basant Panchami' is a Hindu festival celebrating Saraswati, the goddess of knowledge, music and art. It is celebrated throughout the India. It is celebrated every year on the fifth day (Panchami) of the Magh month according to Hindu Calander. Basant Panchami marks the end of the winter season. In this festival the kids are taught to write their first words according to the Hindu Custom. Read More...

Sri Krishna Janmashtami: 'Sri Krishna Janmashtami' is one of the holiest festivals for the people belong to Hindu religion. Janmashtami is celebrated as the birthday of Lord Krishna. This festival is observed on eighth day of Krishna Paksha in the month of Bhadrapad as per Hindu calendar. Janmashtami is also known as Gokulashtami, Krishnasthami, Srijayanti. Janmashtami is famous for Dahi Handi in Maharashtra. Read More...

Ram Navami: 'Ram Navami' is the famous festival of Hindus. It falls on the Navami of Shukla Paksha of Chaitra Month according to Hindu Calendar. This day is celebrated as the birthday of Lord Ram, the son of king Dasharath. Ram is the 7th incarnation of the Dashavatara of Vishnu. Ram Navami also marks the end of the nine-day utsava called Chaitra Navaratri. Read More...

Maha Shivratri: 'Maha Shivaratri' is one of the most important festivals of Hindus. Maha Shivaratri literally means the great night of Shiva or the night of Shiva. It is the festival celebrating the marriage of Lord Shiva and Goddess Parvati. Maha Shivratri falls on 13th night/ 14th day of Krishna paksha of Phalgun month, according to the Hindu calendar. It is celebrated with great enthusiasm all over India. Read More...

Nag Panchami: 'Nag Panchami' is a famous festival of Hindus. It falls on the fifth day of the Krishna Paksha in the month of Shravan according to Hindu Calendar. It is celebrated across all over India. It generally falls in the month of July or August according to Modern Calendar. There are many stories behind the celebration of this festival. The most popular legend is about Lord Krishna. Read More...

Raksha Bandhan: 'Raksha Bandhan' is a famous festival of Hindus. It is also called the festival of 'Rakhi'. It falls on Purnima or full moon day in the month of Shravan according to Hindu Calendar. It is celebrated across all over India. 'Raksha' means protection and 'Bandhan' means bound. Thus 'Raksha Bandhan' means the 'Bond of Protection'. Read More...

Makar Sankranti: 'Makar Sankranti' is a famous festival of Hindus. It is celebrated in several parts of India and also in some other parts. Makar-sankrant generally falls on 14th January every year. This festival is the one of the few chosen Indian Hindu festivals which has a fixed date. Makar Sankranti is the day when the glorious Sun-God begins its ascendancy and entry into the Northern Hemisphere. It is a harvest festival which is essentially celebrated in the Hindu communities. Read More...